---
title: "Biography"
date: 2020-01-10T11:20:10+01:00
draft: false
---

Upon finishing high school in Mymensingh, Bangladesh, Hassan moved to Germany to pursue his dream of becoming an aerospace engineer. He graduated with a bachelor’s degree in 2014 and a master’s degree in 2016, both in Aerospace Engineering, from the University of Stuttgart, Germany. During his bachelor’s degree, he had an industrial placement at the A380 Chief Engineering Department of Airbus Group in Hamburg, where he worked as an intern and later on, as a research student for my thesis; the work of his bachelor’s thesis is currently being implemented at the final assembly line of the Airbus A380 in Hamburg. For his master’s degree, he specialised in ‘Mathematical & Physical Modelling’ and ‘Jet Propulsion,’ both with an emphasis on high-speed aerothermodynamics. In 2015, he went to the University of Arizona, USA as a Visiting Research Scholar to conduct research at Professor Dr Hermann Fasel’s CFD Laboratory for his master’s thesis; this was part of a historical partnership between the University of Stuttgart and the University of Arizona, which was funded by the prestigious Erich-Becker Scholarship. His master’s thesis was on ‘Numerical Simulation of Shock/Boundary-Layer Interaction in Supersonic Flows,’ where he investigated the flow’s instability and its effects in the event of a shock/boundary-layer interaction. From an application’s perspective, the obtained results are of interest for implications on heat transfer enhancement for a high-speed aerial vehicle and air-fuel mixing in a scramjet propulsion system.

Currently, Hassan is conducting research as a postgraduate student at the Osney Thermo-Fluids Laboratory under the supervision of Professor Dr Matthew McGilvray. Their project investigates a particular cooling method — known as transpiration cooling — for a hypersonic vehicle. This uses cooling gas, injected through a porous material, which extracts heat from the material and dribs out onto the surface, creating a cool blanket around the vehicle and thereby protecting it from the shock heated gas. This project intends to develop experimental techniques and utilise ceramic materials; the experiments are carried out in the newly commissioned T6 Stalker Hypersonic Tunnel.

Hassan has cherished the dream of seeing a high-speed passenger aircraft ever since he watched the Thunderbirds as a child. Hence, the work he is doing here at Oxford lies at the very heart of his endeavours. Beside his love of aviation, he is an admirer of fine arts, and he often passes his leisure painting or sketching people or objects of interest. Furthermore, being fluent in English, German, and Bengali and having moderate knowledge of Japanese, he has an affinity to language and literature. Another hobby of his is collecting and using fountain pens, which is something he learned from his father. And if there is time for sports, without doubt, the great game of Cricket is his first choice! Lastly, brought up in a very multicultural environment, he believes, he is one of the most open persons to diversity — which he enjoys tremendously.
